docs: revise Mac App Store Submission Guide (#28922)
electron/electron: docs/tutorial/mac-app-store-submission-guide.md

# Mac App Store Submission Guide

This guide provides information on:

* How to sign Electron apps on macOS;
* How to submit Electron apps to Mac App Store (MAS);
* The limitations of the MAS build.

## Requirements

To sign Electron apps, the following tools must be installed first:

* Xcode 11 or above.
* The [electron-osx-sign][electron-osx-sign] npm module.

You also have to register an Apple Developer account and join the

> [Apple Developer Program][developer-program], which has a yearly subscription
> fee.

Reviewer: Minor nit, I'm not sure we need to call out the details of the Apple Developer Program here.

```suggestion
[Apple Developer Program][developer-program].
```

## Sign Electron apps

Electron apps can be distributed through Mac App Store or outside it. Each way

> requires different ways of signing and testing. This guide mainly focuses on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requires different ways of signing and testing. This guide focuses on
```

> distribution via Mac App Store, but will also mention other methods.

Reviewer: 🤔  if we're also describing other distribution methods in this guide, is "Mac App Store Submission Guide" the right name for this document? Should that other information be separated into a "Mac Code Signing Guide" or something?

Author: Yeah this chapter should eventually be moved into a separate guide, but I would like to do it after adding more information about App Notarization, currently this chapter has too little information to form a new guide.

The following steps describe how to get the certificates from Apple, how to sign
Electron apps, and how to test them.

### Get certificates

The simplest way to get signing certificates is to use Xcode:

1. Open Xcode and open "Accounts" preferences;
2. Sign in with your Apple account;
3. Select a team and click "Manage Certificates";
4. In the lower-left corner of the signing certificates sheet, click the Add
   button (+), and add following certificates:
   * "Apple Development"

>    * "Apple Distribution"

Reviewer: Is there any Apple documentation we could link to here?

#### Legacy certificate names

Apple has been changing the names of certificates during past years, you might
encounter them when reading old documentations, and some utilities are still
using one of the old names.

* The "Apple Distribution" certificate was also named as "3rd Party Mac
  Developer Application" and "Mac App Distribution".
* The "Apple Development" certificate was also named as "Mac Developer" and
  "Development".

### Prepare provisioning profile

If you want to test your app on your local machine before submitting your app to
the Mac App Store, you have to sign the app with the "Apple Development"
certificate with the provisioning profile embedded in the app bundle.

To get the provisioning profile, you can follow the below steps:

1. Open the "Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles" page on the
   [Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/account) website.
2. Add a new App ID for your app in the "Identifiers" page.
3. Register your local machine in the "Devices" page. You can find your
   machine's "Device ID" in the "Hardware" page of the "System Information" app.
4. Register a new Provisioning Profile in the "Profiles" page, and download it

>    to `/path/to/yourapp.provisionprofile`.

Reviewer: Can we link to some Apple documentation here?

### Enable Apple's App Sandbox

Apps submitted to the Mac App Store must run under Apple's
[App Sandbox][app-sandboxing], and only the MAS build of Electron can run with

> the App Sandbox.

Reviewer: I think it's worth reiterating this here to make the point a bit stronger
```suggestion
the App Sandbox. The standard darwin build of Electron will fail to launch
when run under App Sandbox.
```

When signing your app with `electron-osx-sign`, it will automatically add the

> necessary capacities to your app's entitlements, but if you are using custom

Reviewer: I think each individual part of an app's entitlements is called an "entitlement" (not "capacity")

```suggestion
necessary entitlements to your app's entitlements, but if you are using custom
```

* Xcode 11 or above.
* The [electron-osx-sign][electron-osx-sign] npm module.

You also have to register an Apple Developer account and join the
[Apple Developer Program][developer-program], which has a yearly subscription
fee.

## Sign Electron apps

Electron apps can be distributed through Mac App Store or outside it, each way
requires different ways of signing and testing. This guide mainly focuses on
distribution via Mac App Store, but will also mention other methods.

Following steps describe how to get the certificates from Apple, how to sign
Electron apps, and how to test them.

### Get Certificates

The simplest way to get signing certificates is to use Xcode:

1. Open Xcode and open "Accounts" preferences;
2. Sign in with your Apple account;
3. Select a team and click "Manage Certificates";
4. In the lower-left corner of the signing certificates sheet, click the Add
   button (+), and add following certificates:
   * "Apple Development"
   * "Apple Distribution"

The "Apple Development" certificate is used to sign apps for development and
testing, on machines that have been registered on Apple Developer website. The

> method of registration will be described later.

Reviewer 2: Maybe link the exact heading for the below section

encounter them when reading old documentations, and some utilities are still
using one of the old names.

* The "Apple Distribution" certificate was also named as "3rd Party Mac
  Developer Application" and "Mac App Distribution".
* The "Apple Development" certificate was also named as "Mac Developer" and
  "Development".

### Install Provisioning Profile

If you are going to submit the app to Mac App Store, to test it on your local
machine before submitting it, you have to install the app's provisioning profile
on your machine, and sign the app with the "Apple Development" certificate and
the provisioning profile.

To register the provisioning profile, you can follow below steps:

1. Open the "Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles" page on the
   [Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/account) website.
2. Add a new App ID for you app in the "Identifiers" page.
3. Register your local machine in the "Devices" page, you can find your
   machine's "Device ID" in the "Hardware" page of the "System Information" app.
4. Register a new Provisioning Profile in the "Profiles" page, and download it
   to `/path/to/yourapp.provisionprofile` and install it.

> ### Enable Sandbox in Apps
> 
> Apps submitted to Mac App Store must run under [App Sandbox][app-sandboxing],
> and only the MAS build of Electron can run under sandbox mode.
> 
> When signing app with `electron-osx-sign`, it will automatically add App Sandbox
> capacity to app's entitlements, but if you are using custom entitlements
> following capacities must be added:

Reviewer 2: Added a few more words here to make the "App Sandbox" branding explicit everywhere, to avoid any possibility of confusion with other uses of `sandbox` in Electron.

```suggestion
### Enable Apple's App Sandbox

Apps submitted to the Mac App Store must run under Apple's
[App Sandbox][app-sandboxing]. Only the MAS build of Electron
can run in the App Sandbox.

When signing your app with `electron-osx-sign`, it will automatically add the App
Sandbox capacity to your app's entitlements, but if you are using custom entitlements,
the following capacities must be added:
```

  <dict>
    <key>com.apple.security.app-sandbox</key>
    <true/>
  </dict>
</plist>
```

#### Extra steps without `electron-osx-sign`

If you are signing your app without using `electron-osx-sign`, you must ensure

> the app bundle's entitlements have at least following capacities:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the app bundle's entitlements have at least following keys:
```

Could write "the app bundle's entitlements have at least following entitlements" here but that sounds a bit awkward. I think "keys" is a bit more correct than "capacities" though.

</plist>
```

The `TEAM_ID` should be replaced with your Apple Developer account's Team ID,
and the `your.bundle.id` should be replaced with the App ID of the app.

#### Extra Steps Without `electron-osx-sign`

> If you are signing the app without using `electron-osx-sign`, you should also
> make sure following entitlements are added to the binaries and helpers in the
> app's bundle:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are signing your app without using `electron-osx-sign`, you should also
make sure the following entitlements are added to the binaries and helpers in your
app's bundle:
```

  <dict>
    <key>com.apple.security.app-sandbox</key>
    <true/>
    <key>com.apple.security.inherit</key>
    <true/>
  </dict>
</plist>
```

And you must add `ElectronTeamID` key to your app's `Info.plist`, which has your
Apple Developer account's Team ID as its value:

```xml
<plist version="1.0">
<dict>
  ...
  <key>ElectronTeamID</key>
  <string>TEAM_ID</string>
</dict>
</plist>
```

> When using `electron-osx-sign` the `ElectronTeamID` key will be added
> automatically by extracting the Team ID from the certificate's name, you should
> manually add this key if `electron-osx-sign` could not find out the correct Team
> ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using `electron-osx-sign` the `ElectronTeamID` key will be added
automatically by extracting the Team ID from the certificate's name. You may
need to manually add this key if `electron-osx-sign` could not find the correct Team
ID.
```

### Sign Apps for Development

To sign an app that can run on your development machine, you must sign it with
the "Apple Development" certificate and pass the provisioning profile to
`electron-osx-sign`.

```bash
electron-osx-sign YourApp.app --identity='Apple Development' --provisioning-profile=/path/to/yourapp.provisionprofile
```

If you are signing without `electron-osx-sign`, you must place the provisioning
profile to `YourApp.app/Contents/embedded.provisionprofile`.

The signed app can only run on the machines that registered by the provisioning
profile, and this is the only way to test the signed app before submitting to
Mac App Store.

> ### Sign Apps for Submitting to Mac App Store

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Sign apps for submitting to the Mac App Store
```

To sign an app that will be submitted to Mac App Store, you must sign it with
the "Apple Distribution" certificate. Note that apps signed with this
certificate will not run anywhere, unless it is downloaded from Mac App Store.

```bash
electron-osx-sign YourApp.app --identity='Apple Distribution'
```

> ### Sign Apps for Distribution Outside Mac App Store

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Sign apps for distribution outside the Mac App Store
```

If you don't plan to submit the app to Mac App Store, you can sign it the
"Developer ID Application" certificate. In this way there is no requirement to
use App Sandbox and the app can be built with either MAS or the normal build of
Electron.

```bash
electron-osx-sign YourApp.app --identity='Developer ID Application' --platform=darwin --no-gatekeeper-assess
```

By passing `--platform=darwin`, no entitlements will be added by default. And
with `--no-gatekeeper-assess`, the `electron-osx-sign` will skip the macOS
GateKeeper check as your app usually has not been notarized yet by this step.

<!-- TODO(zcbenz): Add a chapter about App Notarization -->
This tutorial does not cover [App Notarization][app-notarization], but you might
want to do it otherwise Apple may prevent users from using your app outside Mac
App Store.

> ## Submit Apps to Mac App Store

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Submit Apps to the Mac App Store
```

To sign an app that can run on your development machine, you must sign it with
the "Apple Development" certificate and pass the provisioning profile to
`electron-osx-sign`.

```bash
electron-osx-sign YourApp.app --identity='Apple Development' --provisioning-profile=/path/to/yourapp.provisionprofile
```

If you are signing without `electron-osx-sign`, you must place the provisioning
profile to `YourApp.app/Contents/embedded.provisionprofile`.

The signed app can only run on the machines that registered by the provisioning
profile, and this is the only way to test the signed app before submitting to
Mac App Store.

### Sign apps for submitting to the Mac App Store

To sign an app that will be submitted to Mac App Store, you must sign it with
the "Apple Distribution" certificate. Note that apps signed with this
certificate will not run anywhere, unless it is downloaded from Mac App Store.

```bash
electron-osx-sign YourApp.app --identity='Apple Distribution'
```

### Sign apps for distribution outside the Mac App Store

If you don't plan to submit the app to Mac App Store, you can sign it the
"Developer ID Application" certificate. In this way there is no requirement to

> use App Sandbox and the app can be built with either MAS or the normal build of

Reviewer: I don't think we should suggest that apps that are run outside of App Sandbox be built with the MAS version, as it hamstrings sandboxing. Perhaps note here that if you're not using App Sandbox, you should not use the MAS version (or inversely, only use the MAS build if you're enabling App Sandbox?)

### Additional Entitlements

Depending on which Electron APIs your app uses, you may need to add additional

> entitlements to your app's entitlements file otherwise App Sandbox would prevent
> using them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
entitlements to your app's entitlements file. Otherwise, the App Sandbox may prevent
you from using them.
```

* RIPEMD - [ISO/IEC 10118-3](https://webstore.ansi.org/RecordDetail.aspx?sku=ISO%2FIEC%2010118-3:2004)

[developer-program]: https://developer.apple.com/support/compare-memberships/

> [electron-osx-sign]: https://github.com/electron-userland/electron-osx-sign

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[electron-osx-sign]: https://github.com/electron/electron-osx-sign
```
